hey what's happening why is everything
losing the third dimension the time of
3d has apparently passed and we're going
back to 2d but don't worry it's for the
better
let me explain so let's start at the
very beginning back in the 19th and 20th
centuries before the computer era
company logos were obviously made in 2d
I mean they were mostly hand-drawn works
of art just take a look at this 1976
Apple logo it's nothing short of a
masterpiece why did it change later well
I'll tell you that in a couple of
minutes stay with me
anyway old logos were often quite
elaborate as if companies try to outwit
one another and just didn't know where
to stop this is understandable
considering you had to stand out from
the crowd to be on top professional
artists and designers were often hired
to make a brand instantly recognizable
this is especially obvious in the second
half of the 20th century when companies
emphasized a simple memorable logo that
means by the end of the century
companies understood that their
customers didn't need to see works of
art they needed something that caught
their eye
and kept their attention that started
the era of logos as we know them
soon after the computer and mobile age
came and every home was set up with at
least one PC and cell phone as you know
the first cell phones had buttons not
touchscreens and a keyboard and mouse
just like today now that I'm saying it
that strikes me as rather weird don't
you think we should finally move on from
physical keyboards share your views in
the comments below just a few decades
ago the time of VR AR and other modern
technologies had not yet come but the
digital age was already on the doorstep
and since it's quite difficult for
humans to adapt to something new
designers made the digital revolution
rather soft that's exactly when 3d came
into play when the first touch screens
appeared for example all the icons on
them had to be pressed with a bit of
force and were made to imitate buttons
they had texture volume and shadows to
look like the real thing and they were
even animated to show you when they were
pressed this way you felt pretty
comfortable using new technology while
still being attached to your good old
button cell phone company logos went
through the same transformation when the
internet appeared to the public I'm not
talking about its early military only
days not everyone was ready to accept
the transition from the real world to
the virtual one so it happened step by
step when most companies first put their
logos online they made them look like
actual objects take the Instagram or
YouTube logos for example they actually
depict an old-fashioned TV set and a
vintage camera
this was their link to reality the means
to engage people and make them tune in
this is a technique used by the best of
them skeuomorphism
well what a weird word what it means
though is exactly what I just said when
something new and unusual comes to the
world designers make it easier to get
used to by emulating familiar shapes in
fact even the ancient civilizations use
this skeuomorphic style for instance the
long row of cubes along the seams of
many Greek structures imitated wooden
rafters in old buildings scientists
believe such elements were used to
welcome an innovation while making it
comfortable for people before marble
Greeks built from wood so small familiar
additions like these cubes imitated the
wood and made the new material easier to
get used to the same can be said about
the new logos and touchscreen icons
people needed to accustom themselves to
the fact that buttons weren't necessary
anymore but can you imagine how hard it
was for some just picture this you've
been using analog devices your whole
life maybe even roll that dial on an old
telephone once leave a comment if you
actually remember doing that by the way
anyway you're used to buttons triggers
and other physical means of interaction
and then one day you're told you're
entering a new era and all this stuff is
obsolete cultural shock definitely
so to avoid mass confusion company
started using 3d logos for themselves
and 3d icons for their devices which
imitated items from the physical world
okay thanks for being so considerate but
then literally in one day everything
changed
Apple being the trendsetter in the
digital world presented its new iOS 7
design On June 10th 2013 and was the
first to get rid of the skeuomorphism of
course the new operational system had
been presented three months before it
was actually implemented so users had
time to come to terms with this new idea
however the change itself was
revolutionary Apple basically said it
was high time for old rules to go to the
trash and everyone else followed suit
icons on mobile devices became
completely flat ditching the realistic
look in animation naturally many people
were disappointed with the changes but
in the end it proved to be an ingenious
solution the icons took on a cleaner
look without all those shadows and extra
textures meaning more space on the
screen and more functionality overall
this effect soon spread to everything
else company logos included you see the
flattening of digital screens influence
the way we see the world around us we
entered an age where the Internet took
over humankind today we no longer need
to touch things to see them as they are
we look at flat images and add the
details ourselves companies put two and
two together and made use of the new
trend now their logos are as simple as
mobile phone icons flat minimalistic and
easy to understand they don't look like
they're going to jump at you anymore and
let's be honest you don't need them to
today people want to perceive maximum
information with minimum effort and the
new 2d style is about just that to be
more specific let's go back to the
example I gave you earlier Instagram and
YouTube if you take a look at their
modern logos you'll see nothing but flat
images there are symbols in their purest
form which works because it doesn't
distract us
the essence and I bet you still want to
know why the Apple logo changed so much
I promise to tell you at the beginning
so here you go the company wanted to
created a more memorable image that's
easy to grasp at the first sight and
wouldn't you agree that they succeeded
by the way the bite in the Apple was
added so that people wouldn't confuse it
with a cherry now that's something I
didn't expect in any case though brands
have learned one undoubted truth the
life of a logo is as long as the trends
are you can't just throw up one logo and
live with it for centuries or even
decades
well maybe coca-cola new times require
new changes and although we as consumers
may not think much of it will always
choose something modern and up-to-date
over old fashioned and obsolete most of
the time so what do you think the next
logo trend will be share your views down
in the comments I'm betting on abstract
symbols there's just nothing more
simplistic than that don't you agree
anyway don't forget to give this video a
like if you really liked it share it
with your design loving friends and
click that subscribe button to always
stay on the bright side of life
[Music]